[music]
I'll start with the tempo in the the
titanium fuselage. This was started I
guess last year we had our fireball and
they were all around 13 aspect ratio
pretty much and they fitted on the
existing black fuselage. When we
released the fireball, we'd already done
some testing on some much higher ones
around uh 15 aspect ratio and we knew
that they were better, but we were
running into problems trying to get that
to fit onto that room. Um, back in the
day, we had the red fuselage for the the
big cord thick wings and then as as uh
time went on, we uh used the the black
fuselage and that's been a really good
fit for everything so far that's got a
bit more cord.
with these ones being so narrow and so
thin, it's really really hard to get it
was never going to work to fit them on
there. So, we had to um develop a new
fuselage system. Um, another big part of
the problem with this wing is that it's
so thin. It's less than 10 mil stiff
there. And to get that so that it just
didn't snap off was quite a big deal. We
had a lot of them snap off. We had a lot
of people swimming for kilometers at a
time out at sea with only half a wing.
That
>> Yeah, he knows how to swim.
>> Not Not easy. Not easy to get that to
work. So, I'll take this apart so you
can see how it works. It has uh two grub
screws in the front
and inside this is all titanium. And
then inside of the the front end is a
expansion plate. So these grub screws go
through, hit the expansion plate and it
comes off.
So that just comes off. That's this top
plate here is uh stainless steel and
this in the middle here is a screw with
a spring underneath it. And that
actually pulls the stainless steel up.
And the reason it pulls it up is to
create a slight clearance so that you
can slide the wing on there easily. Um,
when those grub screws go through, they
hit they hit the expansion plate. These
are a low uh low pitch um M8 screw. So,
they're 1 mm pitch. So, like a quarter
of a turn is 0.25 of the mil. 0.25 of a
mil is about how much you need to expand
that to tighten it. Probably put that
back on again. You just whack it on.
It's, you know, it's a little bit loose
at that stage. And then you just tighten
the grub screws up and it expands
inside. We played around with a lot of
different methods to get the titanium to
tighten onto that hole inside there. We
initially had a a titanium fuselage with
a a cut through it and it had a little
tab that that moved and it it kind of
worked pretty well, but it relied on
when it opened, it only pushed on that
that one point. And the back end of the
fuse here, this had to rely on the
titanium being the exact size uh and the
the molding being exact. there was a was
a perfect tolerance and it also is kind
of difficult to get it on and off. So
with the expansion plate it gets exactly
the right tension that it needs every
time. Um the grub screws stop it falling
off. So even though I haven't tightened
it up you can get it off because it's
it's you know the grub screws are in
there. So you tighten it finger tight to
start with and then you put the key in
and do about a quarter turn. So I'm
heading for about here. That's all you
do. Just a quarter turn. You don't need
to do any more than that. And that is
totally rigid. But if you try and feel
with your fingers on there, there is no
movement in that joint. That's the
stiffest join that we've been able to
achieve to hold everything together.
Feel really good. The back end is a is a
similar setup. It has just one screw to
tighten it up. And one of the things
about this is that this wing being so
high aspect and being so thin, it's very
low drag. and existing fuselage and and
in fact fuselage from any company that
you can choose is actually way way too
thick. You can't actually get a really
thin high aspect wing like this. You
can't expect that to work on a big
chunky fat fuselage. There's just too
much drag on the center section to make
that work. That aluminium fuser we've
got there, we've done some new uh dock
start pump wings that are 1500 span,
1750 span, and that works fantastically
for that. So it's kind of as the sport
is evolving, it is sort of spreading
itself out and there's things that are
specific for this or specific for
whatever. You can't necessarily have one
size fits all. Remind me to talk about
mask at some stage. So that comes off
the back and it has an expansion plate
on on the back of there as well. You'll
notice that there's a a cover plate on
here. Well, you you can kind of hardly
see it, but there is a cover plate on
there for the screws. So that has a a
little screw in there and you undo that
and there's your two screws tighten onto
the head there. The the edges of this
are ridiculously sharp. You got to be
really careful not to cut yourself
there. But when it does go together
because the edges are so perfect there
it's almost seamless. Most people like
if they're riding the the tempo set up
they have their mask and they put this
on kind of once and then that's done. So
once that's on, uh, a lot of people use
it. It stays on. And the fuselage cover
that's got a hole for the mast in the
bottom of it that just goes around the
whole thing and stays on there. So if
that's in the back of your car, it
doesn't smash your car or smash the
fuselage.
The wings, the biggest one is uh 1090
span uh, and the smallest one at the
moment is um 890s fan. Um, and we have a
bunch of rear wings. that one that was
on there.
There's a there's a 30
and they go the largest one's 45 and the
smallest is 25. Bit of 25 here.
It's your favorite.
>> Yeah, they're they're much stiffer than
the other skinnies that are narrow.
>> They are. And that's actually a really
good question. all of these wings. Like
when we uh were racing and kind of a
long story, but it's worth it. When
we're in uh Hawaii, we had guys racing
on the the whole new tempo system. It
was actually going really well, but it
had the the old tab system, so the fit
on the front wasn't quite perfect. And
you know, we were weing bits of
aluminium and there to try and make it
fit every time. And you know, that
needed fixing. The expansion plate in
there has made that much better. One of
the other things that we really felt is
that we' done an awful lot on the wings
and the fus that was working great, but
we felt like the mass needed more work,
but we're in Maui. The races were in 2
weeks. We didn't have time to build a
new mold and do everything else. And we
knew that was our next project. And then
I actually saw one of the guys at the
beach um sanding all day and he sanded
the whole um carbon layer off the
outside of his his front wing. you
sanded through the whole thing and it
got me to thinking we could probably
sand one of the um last that we got. So
I actually found um Perth's mast and we
with Frank we we ground the woven carbon
off the outside. Now, every foil that
you see anywhere has woven carbon on the
outside. And that's always been done
right since day one. And the reason
that's there is that it's a the woven
carbon is is thicker and it's like a
sort of felty surface. So, it actually
gives room to, you know, fix everything
out when it's being pressed. So, it
evens it out and makes it look pretty
smooth and pretty nice. Um, so but it's
it's just it's normal carbon, normal
modulus carbon, and it's woven. Carbon
to be really effective has to be in a
straight line to be in tension. Uh, and
the woven carbon because of the woven
effect, it's kind of like a spring, so
it's not as stiff. Underneath that woven
carbon, again, on all the wings inside
of there is unidirectional carbon. And
that's carbon is all running in one
direction. It's very, very thin.
Typically the woven carbon is about uh
0.5
just over 0.5 thick uh and the unicarbon
is about 2 of a mil thick very very
flat. So m wings all built with
unicarbon but with a carbon on the
outside. So the mast that we had we
sanded all of the woven off the outside.
It was relatively easy to see where
you're going. You could just sand
through it. Um we managed to get 1.1 mil
off the thickness of the mast. um sanded
it, feed it, and FTH was the first had a
Yahoo on it. I think you did a you do an
M2M run practice or something. Can't
remember now, but came back in and said,
"That's great. That's fantastic." And
there was no negative effect from it. It
didn't actually feel uh less stiff. So,
it got me to thinking that could
probably do a lot better with the wings.
And like if you think of the the the
tips of these wings here, it's probably
only 2 1/2 mil thick, you know, through
here. And you got to figure that 1.1 mil
of that was woven carbon, which is, you
know, not useless, but not very good. So
what we did, you know, they got the
factory to build the same wing, same
mold, but remove the woven carbon and
replace it with unicarbon. And first
wing they built, they did a vent test.
So they put load cells on 100 mls in
from the end and they just push down 200
kg and they measure how much the wing
bends. And the original one bent 38 mil
and the one with the revised unicarbon
bent 25 mil. So it's like 25% stiffer
just by revising the laminate. So we did
the rear wing as well. And I mean that's
even more obvious because it's so thin
and it made these wings like you know
you can barely bend that. It's really
really stiff. And the wings we had
earlier than that, they were just [__]
flexible. That was all we could do. So
we all the guys that raced the the the
Maui race series um M2M and the M2, we
had nine out of the top 20 were riding
Axis. And since then, actually quite a
few others have changed over to Axis. So
I'd say this foil setup is probably the
dominant downwind foil setup on the
market at the moment. and it's going
really well and we're pretty stoked with
built that. Kai has been racing on it
and he started on the uh the early the
fireballs when he when he joined on and
then started with all of this stuff and
apart from like since Maui racing he's
pretty much run every race in Hawaii,
Northshore, Oahu, uh France, everywhere
since then basically. So this was my
wing I used for all the Hawaii races.
That's a 920 and I never felt like I
needed anything bigger. Um, straight up
the races I ended up trying the small
one. I wish I'd used that for all the
races. Um, the speed and carry from them
is is actually insane. And for all of
France, I use the 1020 and that's the
650 area one that that is my if
conditions are questionable, that's the
wing I'll take. Um, the range on that is
insane. you know, I can do 145s up to
230s and you get comfortable in all
those ranges. So, I've been trying them
and they've they've treated me really
well.
>> I'd say with the the tempo, I've always
I've used it a lot uh winging and if you
com if I compare it to the the fireball,
say the 102 is the main one I use. It
gets about the same as the TH00and uh
fireball, but once you're actually up,
it actually feels like the stall speed
is actually a lot better. So, it'll go a
lot slower. It'll also definitely go a
lot faster. So, it it's a lot less wing,
but it's actually given a whole lot
more. So,
>> how much of that do you think is due to
the the reduction in drag?
>> Well, it's both. It's both. Um, it's the
same air section. It's the same for
section that we use in the fireball, but
it's just so much less area. There is
less there to slow you down, and it's
it's noticeable. like when you back off
whatever's driving you it just carries
on running. Um a lot of the time in the
racing I was in a boat with Shannon and
at one stage we were going alongside one
of the twins and Edo and Edo was he was
pumping. He pumped that whole entire
race just pumping entirely and Twin was
running next to him and he was just
doing a little every now and again just
every now and again. And if you watch
Kai racing there not an awful lot of
pumping going on. is just running. They
run free. There's very little drag in
them and you you kind of have to do a
whole you have to learn to do a bit
less. I I've noticed quite a few people
on their first run, they're trying to
pump like crazy on it and you know, you
got to tell them just to back off, let
it do its work. It'll it'll do it.
>> So then you'd expand other ranges into
that fuselage. Um
>> yep. Yeah. Given time we will. This
titanium fuselage is not a cheap thing.
Um, everything about it is designed to
be the very best it can be and I think
it will be very applicable for other
things. We have some uh wing foil race
front wing back wing setups that will
fit on this and they're relatively
close. There's still a bit of work to go
on those. Um, and who else knows who
knows what else we'll do on there in the
future. It really uh this system suits
you know narrow cord thin high
performance wings. the surge wings, you
know, we didn't actually need to we
didn't need to put those on here. We
could have, but we wanted them to be
ready for anyone to use on their
existing setup. And there's not really
any compromise with that. They fit
perfectly fine.
>> How hard is to write the table if you're
going?
>> Not hard. It's really not hard. Um I
think to get the best out of it, you've
got to be a good writer. But, um, I've
had a bunch of people demo it and
they've kind of gone, why why wouldn't
this is winging? Why wouldn't I just
ride that as my my general wing? It's
it's not really like it looks
ridiculously small in area. Um, but it
get like the 102 version gets up about
the same just a thousand
fireball and once you're up it's
>> those fireballs that you me
>> they're very user friendly and I'm a
heavy boy.
of these. These are even more so.
>> Yeah, I was very surprised how for I
thought, "Oh, yeah. This is easy."
>> Yeah.
>> The other guy. So, this is my everyday.
>> It's supposed to be easy, I think. And
I've actually had quite a few people
come off. I had one guy, uh, Thiago
Campos, and, um, he had actually the
year before, uh, he was riding an art
pro
1051 or something like that. And right
at the start of one of the Maui races, I
walked past and saw he was got and I was
like, "Should really be on the
fireball." And I sort of walked around
and I went back and said, "Look, you
know, we should, you know, put you on
the fireball." And he said, "I can't I
can't race on a wing I've never used."
And I said, "Oh." And I walked away and
came back and said, "I think you can." I
think you're going to just get over. We
just bolted the thousand on. And he went
out and send it on on a wing he had
never used before. And I saw him at the
end of the race. I said, "How was that?"
He said, "Perfect." And again this year
we got there and it was the same again.
He had his fireball 1000 and I walked
past and I was like he's hitting a 102.
So we put a 102 on. He he paddled out
rode it unused and he was totally
comfortable on it. So that if you've
been on that platform it's not hard to
to swap over to it. It's pretty
comfortable
>> only easier.
>> I think a testament to that as well is
Shannon's daughter. Um
>> Roxy's been learning to downwind. Um,
but she left at the gorge and it's 16
aspect wing. She learned to downwind on
the 1090.
[snorts]
>> Super easy. Yeah. [laughter]
>> Yeah, there is that.
>> Wouldn't they be too fast for the gorge?
>> No, they're actually okay over there. I
mean, ideally at the gorge, most people
are not interested in going anywhere
fast. And the surge is the one over
there. Yeah, she was just learning. So
she wanted to get up and stay up and
glide and it worked perfectly for her
for that.
>> There's another thing I've been harping
on about for many many many years and
that is that that when you're describing
or comparing one wing to another wing um
the the industry has basically done it
by area and to me that's the craziest
silliest idea. And as evidence of that,
we've got the ART V2
999. That's 10. It's it's thousand span
and it's 1024 in area. Um, we've got the
Fireball 1,000. Uh, it's also meter
wide. Um, and that is 773 and the 102 is
650. So, you've got 10 183 650. Three
different areas. They get up exactly the
same. The range on on this one, the 650,
is is way better bottom end and way
better top end once you're up. Why are
we comparing areas? Areas have never
really made sense, but with the new
foils that are higher aspect and higher
camber, it makes even less sense than it
ever did to try and compare areas.
The only way that I can compare any
wings
span for me is a bit of a guideline and
it works quite well. But the only real
way that you can compare one wing with
another is to actually have the exact
design file for that wing, run CFD on it
and and get all the info and then I get
all graphs. And I do the same calculated
right away and I've got a bunch of
graphs and I can lay them on top of each
other and I can see exactly which one
will get up earlier where it tops out.
You can compare exactly. You can see
exactly what it is. That to me is the
only way that you can compare two two
foils. But area that's just annoys.
>> Have you ever calibrated any of those
measurements with like getting behind
the boat or testing it in a real? So
that that calculation we've done there
that's exclusively on a front wing
doesn't even have a fairing on it. It's
just the front wing. You've also got the
fuselage. You put a bit of mast you rear
wing and a whole bunch of other stuff
going on there. So it's not the whole
solution. We have actually done CFD on
the whole entire thing with a set amount
of mast in there and we've actually run
it through a a series of turns and you
get a so much d. It takes 24 hours or
more to run it, to actually get all that
data, but the data you get back is
pretty daunting. And to try and
interpret that meaningfully and make any
sense of it, I don't think we're not
really at that stage yet. But it's very
easy to do a wing and find out exactly
what it's doing.
>> So options then you decide then okay we
if you're stuck with it just go with
span but don't use area.
So if you're moving from one fork to
another, like I said,
>> the best way to do it on span you span.
But the best way to do it is to actually
take it out for riding. You can do that
to your friendly shop. That's the best
thing in the world.
>> What's camber?
[laughter]
Does anyone know cam camber? Camber.
It's there's a
>> section of a section
>> sort of. Yeah. So,
[laughter]
>> so
>> a lot of people have been a lot of
people have been uh looking at the
reflex like the back of this wing has a
a reflex and a hollow in there that kind
of indicates that it's got some some
camber, but camber is actually a line.
If you cut that wing in half and then
look at it from the end, you've got the
the top of the foil and you've got the
bottom of the foil and there's an
imaginary line. It's a real line, but
you can't see it. That's halfway between
the top and the bottom. So, that's your
camber line. You also have a chord line.
And the chord line goes from the the
center of the leading edge, center of
the trailing edge, that's a dead
straight line. So, if that was 100 mm of
cord, and the distance to the camber was
2.5 mil, that's a 2 1/2% camber. The
higher the camber, the higher the lift.
Most of the Spitfires, the old Art Pros,
they were 2 1/2% camber, which is kind
of considered now to be a relatively
neutral. Four section is not not that
lifty, but it does run quite fast. This
one here has 3.7%
camber, and that creates really, really
good lift at low speed, and that's what
gives the great glide to this, the
fireball, and the search. They've all
got a very similar foil section.
Thank you, Lou. that that's saying that
the underside is actually contemp
because it's still thin. So you can
not no it's the underside being concave
that's a slight distraction you know you
you actually got to look at the line
that's half between the top and the
bottom forget the detail in the bottom
forget the detail in the top it's the
line that's halfway in between that you
kind of can't see
>> and where the high point is on that
chord. So you call that an loaded
section.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. after loaded sections generally as
they go faster they have a slight
pitching down moment too. They want to
tip down and uh you need to correct that
with a rear wing as well. So it gets
more and more involved or more detailed
you go into it. Um another thing that
we've done that started with the
Spitfire um is we did a a straight
median line. So if you take the
Spitfire, the the thickest point, it's
about just over a third back from side
to side is a dead straight line. So the
center of lift on that foil roughly is a
in a dead straight line. So that means
whether you're going slowly or fast,
it's it's kind of in that straight line.
earlier wings they were a lot more raked
back and we we kind of thought that rake
backness um made them more turning but I
don't believe it actually does these are
all straight median line and they turn
since this one they all turn beautifully
by having that all in a straight line
what that does is it doesn't adjust it
doesn't need so much correction at
various speeds so you can get away with
a lot smaller rear wings like that 25
rear wing that we had out before I don't
think anyone's got as a rear wing that's
anywhere near as small as that and it
totally comfortable with the tempo that
because this is a straight new line. It
doesn't have a flip back in the tip.
That's just straight. So everything's
kind of lined up. I know that other
people have tried that 25 mil cord wing
on their high performance race foils and
not being able to use it, not being able
to get it worked. And I I think it's
because of a straight Nian line.
Any
other questions on the tempoye type
stuff?
>> So, the guild is solid carbon. There's
nothing in the core.
>> There's no room for core,
>> but it's a carbon core, not titanium or
anything.
>> No, no, it's But one of the the the
tricky things um with building it is
like right there there's there's about
60 something layers of of um pre prag
carbon wedged in there. and pre Preer
Uni Carvin, it's a little bit like a
sticky piece of paper that's got spray
glue on each side. So, you've got to lay
it up exactly right, you know. So, when
we design that, we actually design the
layout and the prep carbon gets pulled
out on a on a table, vacuumed down, and
blade cut. And it's all labeled from the
center out once you actually build your
wing. To lay out that many layers and
not get a wrinkle in the carbon is very,
very difficult. And if you get a wrinkle
in the carbon, the wing just ends up
breaking, especially around the the
center here where the son is loaded. So
we worked out some tricky ways of
building that so that they didn't we
were able to hold a lot of carbon in
straight lines. And that's one of the
keys to making this work that the the
the layup that [clears throat] we've
done on this the way that we did the
layup and with having the uni carbon on
the outside has actually given us the
confidence to carry on going even
further than this with our but even more
high aspect with our next wings. We were
kind of on a limit with this but when we
worked out that laminate and the
strength and where to build it we've
we've actually got ideas on where we go
further from that. If the uni gives you
so much stiffness, why would you rub uni
on the surge?
>> It is uni inside of it. On the outside.
>> The outside. Yeah.
>> Just because it's such a thick chunky
wing. It doesn't really matter.
>> You don't need it. You probably couldn't
even feel the difference on that
thickness of wing.
>> Yeah. It's it's very hard. The the uni
it's a bit messy.
>> Uh and the the finish on this if you
take it out in the light and hold it in
the sun will actually the the the clear
coat on it is 30% black. So that you
can't actually see what a mess it is,
but if you hold it in the light, you
can't actually see the lines of the uni
and stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's it's harder to build a wing like
that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But it's necessary for a wing like that.
>> Mhm.
>> Not necessary for that. Perfect.
>> Yeah. Any minus feeding on the outside
now?
>> We played around with that, but they're
actually um they're of a thickness that
we couldn't actually get a benefit from
them. Yeah. that you come out your fe.
>> Yeah, we're working on that. Don't you
worry.
>> If that sort of covers that, I'd like to
go into the surge. I'll have a bit of a
ramble about it and then we'll get Luke
who's the coaster boy. So, that this is
our new surge wing. And it took a few
goes to get this this right. It's
basically similar for section. So, it's
really uh good lift, but not too slow.
Uh really good range.
We've kind of kept a straight median
line in it. I guess the big thing about
that is the is the turn down and turn
up. I call it the gross mustache effect.
And um we to start learning about that.
We had our fireball 1000 and I rebuilt
fireball 1000 with the same outline,
same foil section. Everything was the
same, the same twist. The only thing I
changed was the the turn down and the
turn up, the gross mustache business.
And then we tested it back to back and
it was uh slightly slower to get up. It
was um definitely slower top speed. So
if you're building a race foil, you
don't want a lot of upsy downsy business
in it. And you don't want that is that a
foil creates lift at 90° to the foil. So
if you can imagine a fin a foil
exaggerated turning down a long way and
then turning up a long way, you've got
your vectors and they end up pointing
outwards and then they point inwards.
I've exaggerated it just for for effect.
But you end up with vectors that are
pointing out and vectors pointing in and
these ones are basically arguing with
each other which creates drag and it's
not efficient
>> of energy
>> waste of energy. So uh but in saying
that it does make the wing feel narrow.
So that thousand span fireball with the
gross mustache in it actually felt kind
of narrower and it actually rolled side
to side easier. Part of the reason also
for it is that the the tip facing up is
less efficient for actually lifting you,
I think, but it still has water flowing
over it. So, it acts like a smaller
wing, so it's easier to roll. And the
water flying over the tips actually
creates some stability. It also helps
with tip breach. And there's some other
weird benefits that we sort of ran into.
Um, and that is having the upsy downsy
business. If you're jumping and then
trying to land on the foil again with
the wing being bent up and down, it
seems to give just a millisecond of
chance for this to actually get itself
together again when it hits the water
before the next bit. Whereas when it was
flat, it just it's very hard to land
without it crashing. We tried quite a
few different versions of the surge and
one of the things that made this one
work quite well is if you just look at
the bit between my hand there, it's it's
actually relatively flat. Um, we did
another one that was more of an arc
through the middle. And with more of an
arc, it rolled really well side to side,
but when it rolled over, it tended to
lock into a turn and that was it. You're
sort of stuck with that turn. This one
here, it's quite progressive and it
feels it actually feels really like a
surfboard. It'll lay over into a turn.
But if you're surfing on a wave and
looking up at the wave face and you see
it breaking over, you can just go
straight up and and whack at it. It's
freer and easier to turn. Um, doesn't
lock into a turn. Tip reaches really
well. It's great in white water. If you
see the videos of Luke riding, it kind
of
explains a lot of how good it is with
for surfing. Also really good for
pumping, too. Like, uh, Luke is
lightweight, KG. And I saw him pull out
a waves that that you know pump 500 m
out to sea to the next wave and then
catch the peak and ride it back in again
repeatedly. Like it's it pumps very very
well. The guys actually used it in the
dock staff competition and worked really
well for that. So very versatile wing. I
know probably said too much. Have a go.
>> How we going? This is Luke.
>> I'm Luke. Um yeah. So, been riding the
Surge now for just a bit over 6 months.
Um, been doing various comps and riding
various conditions. Um, 890 has been my
go-to pretty much. Um, mainly because
there was two sizes made to start off
with and the rest of the sizes have come
rather recently. So, the 830 I think
that will become my next, you know, main
main prone wing do it all. Um, but like
until then, the 890 has been good for
sub paddle, parow winging, winging, um,
prone foiling, pretty much anything you
can throw at it. They lift super nice,
super comfortable. They don't really
have that aggressive lift. So, it's
really nice for particular like, you
know, for me, prone foiling. you get up
on a wave, you know it's going to
gradually come up and you can engage the
foil straight away and kick out to the
next wave if you need to or jump
straight into turns and um just kind of
know it's going to be reliable. As
Adrian was saying with the upturn wing
tips as well as you kind of lay it over
it just gives you that little bit more
angle I think angle of attack as it
comes out of the water so it doesn't
re-enter so flat and grab bubbles. And
even looking at um videos and things as
that kind of wing tip comes back down,
you can kind of see the bubbles get to
about here and then they just wash off.
So they tip breach very very nicely. And
you know for the 890 I can surf this
thing. My old main wing was a 780
Spitfire. I can surf this probably even
harder than I could the Spitfire 780 and
pump it 10 times longer as well. They're
really really impressive wings and yeah,
I've never really looked back after
jumping onto these. Um, as Adrian said,
the dock starting in Croison, we were
riding the 1010s. Kai, myself, and Gray.
>> Gray. Yeah. Another 100 kilo rider. So,
we were all uh riding. Yeah. Riding the
1010 and um yeah, did really well on
those. Gray made it to the finals in
Centrope and I made it to the finals in
Kuzon. Unfortunately fell on the start
and you know, blew my chance. But yeah,
they were very super reliable on dock
start as well. And I think a lot of the
Euros that kind of jumped on said said
the same thing. You know, some of the
best dock starting wings that they
tried. So yeah, really really friendly.
And um for me at 100 kilos like the 890
is kind of do it all. Um it packs way
above above its weight in terms of lift
and then turning side to side. Tips out.
Yeah. All day long. No problems.
>> Is the surge replacing the um fast?
>> The surge is a surge. It did not replace
it as [laughter]
>> I'm not sure
>> it did for me.
>> Yeah, it did for me. I suppose it
depends what we want. Like I really like
the Spitfires for CL foiling. We do a
lot of CL foiling as well. Um but just
having that kind of flat section and a
lot of area is kind of nice. You can
slow it right down and you know do some
pretty unique stuff. Um, I haven't
actually tried kite foiling with the
surges, but once I jumped on the surge
proning, I never went back to the
Spitfire.
>> Like a beginner going to intermediate
stage, you can just go for it.
>> In terms of lift, like I find the
Spitfire
sometimes like on a takeoff or if you
get a bit out of control or too much
speed, it can really like jump up and
lift really aggressively. Whereas this,
I don't really find that it kind of
lifts and you can control it really
easily. Um
>> a bit also I go I'm in the video but um
when you go for a bit of turb
>> like bubbles or really you know foamy
[__]
>> super com um it's a bit more better than
a Spitfire.
>> Yeah the Spitfire feels almost you know
like you're driving down a gravel road
with no suspension and this thing just
kind of it softens you through it. Um it
yeah it deals with turbulence and
bubbles and everything really really
well.
like hitting the white water. It was,
you know, not guaranteed with the
Spitfire or the other wings. But with
this one here, pretty much just every
single time handles it and lands
perfectly.
>> Yeah, it's a twist down. Yeah. Is it a
less angle or tough on the tips?
>> It's got the same wash out on the tips
that all of our other wings have had.
>> So, it should be the same with that, but
I think it's more to do with the gross
mustache business.
I think just with the angle, like if you
imagine the wing continues down this way
and you tilt it up, you know, and you
tip breach, it's kind of breaching at a
flat. And I find anytime you come out of
and it's too flat, the bubbles are just
going to shoot right back to the um fuse
every time. So just having that extra
bit of angle of attack as you come out
of the water and coming back in, it just
lets those bubbles slide right off. And
then even if you are a little bit
flatter, I've had multiple videos where
it just doesn't really get past that
bend. So yeah, super super super
friendly and just kind of does
everything. I I would say there's a lot
of there's a lot of lessons like it it's
kind of logical looking back at it now
like the um the Spitfire we learned a
lot with that um for turning you know
with the straight median line and also
the taper that's got quite a bit of cord
in the middle and it tapers quite a bit
and we've experimented with that a lot
and the earlier versions of this tempo
it was actually narrower in the middle
with a wider tip and that was actually
much harder to to get it to hold
together to snap here all the time. So
we actually widened the the cord in the
middle and increased the taper and it
made it a lot stronger, made it a lot
more stable around the center section of
the wing, but it also uh lessened uh the
resistance to roll. So it turns really
naturally and easily. It feels really
comfortable ride. That's got the same
thing on the other. All the lessons that
we learned in all the various wings like
right through the big dock start wings.
They all carry through to the other
wings. All all the lessons seem to cross
over.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. And I mean, in terms of size as
well, um, like Adrian said, like running
wingspan is a pretty accurate size
comparison. U, you know, if you're
looking, if you've been coming off the
RV2s, I'd be looking, you know, if
you're on the triple 9, I'd be probably
looking towards the 890, maybe the 950.
Um, depends on your level and weight.
Um,
and then, you know, if you're on the
819, probably jumping down to the 830 is
probably going to be a good transition.
Like I said, coming off the Spitfire as
I was on the 780 did obviously jump up a
little bit, but that's just cuz what was
available now there's the 830. That's
what I'm going to be riding mostly. And
um, yeah, pretty pretty sick. And then
paired up with the surf skinnies as
well. So my main surf skinny is the 300.
I find that pumps really well. pretty
much pumps better than the progressives,
turns better than the skinnies, and
turns just as well as a progressive. So,
you know, it's kind of for me was that
perfect fill in the gap. Um, I never
really liked the uh the skinnies for
surfing. Just found it drew out the
turns too much and you couldn't really,
you know, get as maybe radical as you'd
like to, whereas those, you know, you
super comfortable to whip it a bit
harder and um know that you've still got
some glide and ar there if needed to. So
yeah,
>> it was amazing to watch Luke in the surf
event in Croissant and the judges had
come from a full-on surf background or a
surfing judges and they were blown away
to actually see foil and get to a level
where it's fully surfing caring terms
rather than a week or you know there was
he was gouging some turns and look like
he was surfing a proper surfboard. It
was great to see
>> and it was yeah super comfortable trans
like as soon as I jumped off the
Spitfire to that it was just at home you
know felt good. So
>> what day would you like to use with the
>> uh the 300 C?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So the 280
um I just wanted a little bit more pump
like for me at my weight I wanted a
little bit more pump. And then jumping
to the 320 I wanted it to be a little
bit looser. So 300 was the perfect gap
for me. Whereas I know Kai and I think
Perth over here as well will ride the
280 mainly. And then Sven, you on the
300?
>> 320.
>> So
>> yeah,
>> Senn is a big fellow and he's used them
quite a bit. Um you you probably got
something to say about him.
>> Yeah, I use the 950 quite often like
conditions today for downwinding like
surf down windows and it was it was
really fun and I was really impressed. I
did yesterday
the day before at poor beach with the
1010 was at knee high v and it was so
much fun that's unbelievable
our weights sort of closeish being a
surge what would you pre that to in the
um spitfire
>> I almost would say the ele 80 lift but
it's way faster so from the lifter from
the early lift hard to get up I think
it's similar to the
>> I think it just has more than the 1030
but I normally You know the Spitfire
10:30.
>> That's why I ride mainly as
>> more. I get up earlier and the store
speed was insane. If you're going on a
bump on the bed and you're almost
stalling, almost standing, I think it
should fall down.
Front foot pressure going like it's
really fun. Yeah. Like also like I had
it today on also on the the 2010 my
first time today. I completely breached
the whole foil out of the water. He
thought I'm falling. I had a powering in
my hand. Maybe bridge it all. Push it
in. Lots of water bubbles. I said, "Oh
my god." And it rolled out.
Unbelievable. Then never had something
like before you can breach like a tail
or something like that and it pushes in.
But it was the whole
push it in on the door.
>> It's like
nobody reminded me talk about mass here.
So we didn't get to talk about M.
>> Yeah. Mhm. So,
we've got a bunch of our masks that have
been around for a good while. Got the
the 19 mil aluminium and then we did the
uh the power carbon mass and that was in
uh like a normal modulus carbon and then
a high modulus carbon and then we've got
the the ultra high modulus carbon mass
that we've been building for quite a
while. Um the ultra high modulus one,
well actually these ones are about uh 15
mil um at the narrowest at the first
point down through here. the uh ultra
high modulus they're about 13 1.5 mil
through there. Obviously when you make a
mask thinner um you're challenging the
stiffness of it, but if you can put
fancy carbon in there, you can kind of
get it back up again. And like the the
ultra high modulus is actually by far
the stiffest. Uh and that's actually
been a pretty pretty good reference
point for mass for a long while. We've
been developing some dock pocket wings
and they got quite big spans. One of
them's uh 1750, so it's much up this
stand wing. And uh the construction that
we've worked out with this has been
really applicable to make those work as
well. As you get those bigger span
wings, um you need to go higher aspect
because otherwise the the extra span
also just gives you too much drag and it
it doesn't work. So the 1750 wing is is
20 aspect ratio and the 1500 fireball is
17 aspect ratio and it's kind of normal
for wings like that now. Seems very high
aspect but that's it's not really. Now
the 1750 to actually control that
regular span of a wing. The ultra high
modulus mast was not really quite
enough. So we came up with another mask
and it is 18.1 mil thick right at the at
the base through here. And we also the
the dad that goes inside the fuselage,
we didn't drop that into 15 mil. We left
it at 18.1 mil. And we also didn't do it
28 mil deep. We did it 35 mil deep. So
there's a lot more intersection into the
fuselage. So the the fatty mask, it
actually has to be used with the
specific um fatty black fuselage. Um
because it's thicker, it doesn't
actually need to be built out of the oxy
modulus carbon. So, it's not
frighteningly expensive, but it is
radically stiff. It is a bit draggier.
It's only 18.1 mil thick, so it's not
going to be anywhere near as fast as an
Ultra Pro, but for someone like SP, he's
actually got the power to push right
through that and ignore that. So, he's
got one coming and you I'm sure you'll
hear whether it works for him or not.
But when we got that mast, suddenly the
1750 had total control. you were
actually able to turn it and steer it
rather than just trying to attempt to
balance on top of it. And we've actually
built wings bigger than that now and
still still getting really good control.
So, um I guess historically when people
have been buying their foil, they've
just looked at the length of the mast
and that's it. They haven't considered
anything to do with what they're
actually what foil they're going to use,
what discipline, how much their weight
is, what board, what everything. And and
I think it's definitely time to start
working out what you're trying to do
with each mast. And for Sven, if he's
using the fireball 1350, 1250, 1500
wing, you know, he really needs the
fatty mast and fuselage. If he's toe
foiling on a small wing, the ultra pro
is going to be absolutely fantastic for
him. So it's moving into the next stage
where you know to get performance you
can't just have one mask for your whole
range of wings and expect to get
performance out of that.
>> Is the interface at the other end of the
fuse to the front foil the same on the
fatty fuse?
>> No, you have to have a fatty.
>> So you can't use
>> you have to have a fatty fuse and fatty
mask. Oh,
>> you mean the foil
>> the head at the front? It's a black.
It's a black. So, just a flat,
>> whatever. Yeah.
>> And it's got the same saddle at the
back, so it fits the other. That just
reminded me of something else like this
uh tempo setup. We also have this bit
here in aluminium with a little saddle
on it so that you can bolt your existing
rear wings on there. So, if you've got
into downwind and you know you've got
all of your different rear wings there,
you could actually just get the cheapo
aluminum extension tail pipe and put
your rear wing on there and just get the
fuse large and front wing until you
worked out exactly what wing you want
and then this is by far more efficient.
But it's just another thing that you can
do. Is your fatty mass same length
coming as
>> it's 800 and 900?
>> And the 800 the way that we've measured
our our mass is like this is 900. So
it's 900 from the surface of the board
to the bottom of the fuse lash.
Some people measure it to the to the top
of the fuse lash or whatever. There
isn't really a standard yet, but that's
what we chose cuz it's just kind of the
depth of the whole thing. It's
>> the bit you see when it's set up, isn't
it? Well, it's kind of your drawer, I
guess, like in a yacht sensor.
>> Yeah. What m do you recommend for tempo
set up for me? 720 uh ultra pro uh is
the best. That's the that's only uh 12
1/2 mil at the bottom. We are working on
a downwind specific mast. So, that will
um it's called a kiwi and there's
there's a few lurfing around at the
moment, but they're
Like any product, we don't actually
release it until we're totally totally
happy with it. It's class, but we're
still trying to get it. Um, is it still
necessary for lighter riders to have the
Fontra Pro
mask, do you [clears throat] think, or
the Ultra Pro is expensive? When we
Okay, another story with that. When we
actually started selling the Ultra Pro
mask, it's made of ultra high modulus
carbon and we were the first to actually
sell a mask that was ultra high modulus.
We built a few just for ourselves and
they worked really well and then we gave
them to a few team riders, mail rode
them and you know after 6 months or so
none of us would ride anything but that
and we're saying but it was too
expensive to sell. So we we kind of
didn't push it that hard out. When we
finally put it on the market and sold it
we said look this is really stiff. lots
of great masks, but we didn't actually
push it that hard out because we didn't
want people to feel that they had to buy
that or else they couldn't even foil. We
just put it out and pretty good. Buy it,
see it, you might like it. And actually,
when the first round of people bought it
and saw how good it was, that's when the
sales actually took off cuz people just
raved about it, you know, went from
there. Um, the stiffer mast you can get,
the better it's going to feel. And if
you can keep it thin as well, it's it's
going to be better deal for a heavy bl.
>> Yeah. Well, it's difficult, but you've
actually got so much power, you can just
go for the fatty mast and just push on
through and you won't even notice that
drag.
>> I'm happy with my ultra profile either.
>> Yeah.
>> And I do one,
>> but what size depends on the span of
wing that you're using. Like if you're
using a 1350 or 1250 regularly, that's
going to be too much for that. But if
you're using a small spad,
you know.
>> Yep.
>> Said your main was a 1030.
>> Yeah.
But you have you have an 80 or 90.
>> No, I just got a 90.
What's the equivalent fuse wise length?
So this is based this is based around a
standard the short sorry the short which
is 700 mil that's what everyone was
using with the firewall. So we just
stuck with that.
>> How much is your flying agent? I have no
idea.
>> Saturday
[laughter]
was Black Friday. [laughter]
>> That's all.
>> Someone asked pricing before and I like
we sell all over the world and I'd do
shop talks all over the world and I I
can't remember all the different prices.
I can do any technical question but I
don't remember prices if it's on the
wall behind you. Yeah.
>> No, not yet.
>> The tempo, the tempo front wing, like
it's a little more expensive than the
fireball, but not that much. The rear
wing, again, it's a little more
expensive cuz there's a bit of fuselage
attached to it. The titanium fuselage is
not cheap. It's an expensive chunk. Did
it have to be titanium?
>> I know. It's very cool. What else would
you build it out of?
>> Well, I don't know. That's why I'm
asking the question.
I assume you experimented with different
materials and
>> so what would you I mean stainless steel
was is like twice as heavy um carbon you
would have to be fat and that doesn't
work so you kind of stuck in a corner
with that you steel russes [laughter]
aluminium um is not strong enough and
you can't you can't get as small as that
you kind of run out
but tell you But to me, you seeing it
first time, it was pretty fun and
process.
>> Yeah. Well, the the details of how it
tightens and everything, you know, I'm
quite proud of that. It took us a long
time to actually get all that working
nicely and was pretty slick the way that
is held together and how how rigid and
solid that is.
>> What were the bending numbers of the
fatty mask compared to the Pro Ultra? So
when we do our tests, we we take the
mast and
we bolt it to the wall and you have to
measure the the same mass with the same
mask. We bolt it to the wall and we hang
25 kg off the end of there. And I
actually measure from the ceiling to the
trailing edge and see how much it it
bends. That's what I did at home cuz it
was easy. And we've actually replicated
on a proper bend machine in China where
they manufacture the masks and the
numbers were exactly the same. So, it's
been a good, I think, useful test for
us. There's some dispute as it as to
whether you should be supporting the
mask, you know, between two points and
bending it in the middle head, but, you
know, nothing is quite right as far as
bending your mask, but bolting it to the
wall and bending it, it gives us a good
uh reference and it kind of relates to
how the mast actually feels when you
ride it. So, uh, going back to how much
the bend is, like if we use like for
like same length mass, it's a 900 m.
The, um, 19 mil aluminium bends
something like 38 mil. Uh, the power
carbon bends, this is off my head, so it
might not be quite right. 38 mil. I
think this is about 29 mil for a for a
normal power carbon. Power carbon high
modulus about 23 mil. The Ultra Pro is
down to about 19. Um the fatty mast was
11. So it's not just a little bit
stiffer. It's a lot.
>> Yeah.
It's also got more cord. It's a monster
of a mast.
I just thought of something else. I
don't know how many foil drivers there
are.
>> [laughter]
>> like pure pure form of it.
>> Yeah, [laughter] I'm going
>> We have a new four-wheel drive pocket
trench board coming which is pretty
slick as well. And that was quite a cool
design the way the the whole unit fits
underneath a a covered trench. So, it's
very clean and nice. And we do an
integrated mask that goes that it was an
engineering masterpiece, but I can I can
totally get that you're not that into
it. And didn't they shift the mask
forward on the Fusion? Was it still fit?
And yeah,
>> so we actually when I found out about
the Fusion, we actually made the pocket
deeper.
>> Okay, sure.
>> Yeah. So it actually fits the Fusion.
You can get everything in the same
place.
>> Very challenging so far.
>> Yeah, it's a tricky trick.
>> But that that system like you just
loosen the bolts, slide it back, lift it
straight out, and try it all. Swap your
battery over, put it back in again. So
it's very slick and easy to use. and
AWSI that by far was the most looked at,
tested, raved about product there. We
had the tempo there. People barely
recognized it. It was all about the four
drive pocket trench board. So,
>> and can you have you is there an adapter
for the Duo Tone foil assist for your
falls?
>> No. No.
>> Don't think it's that much compatible
compatibility between an aluminium mass
with as they claim adapters for every
major fall brand. No.
Yeah, we built adapters for our old
aluminium mast to fit pretty much
everything. And we built a couple of
cool shoes that fit over the end of the
mast. We built a shoe that fits code or
a shoe that fits lift. And we we made
the shoe out of titanium because the the
threads like on the code one for
example, it's only about 6 mil of
thread. So there's very little thread
and and building aluminium, you know,
when you had to tighten it up, you're
very likely to strip that part of it.
The other thing is aluminium cannot
touch carbon. So um having an aluminium
shoe fitting onto a carbon mast
um and it was not necessarily a good
thing. You're going to get corrosion
issues with it. All of our like this
surge wing when we build that it has two
layers of fiberglass around here built
in as an isolator. That's why this is
sprayed slightly black through here just
to disguise that and that creates an
isolation barrier between the fuselage
so it doesn't touch the aluminium
doesn't touch the carbon. The same on
the end of the mast is um fiberglass and
it comes down to about there on the mast
and actually creates a barrier so that
the the carbon doesn't touch the
diffusion when it goes in there.
That's another thing that we've just
done recently too and that's a um NFC
tag. And what that is is you point your
phone at it. You kind of have to take
the cover off your phone to make it
work.
and you open your phone
and then you poke it at that Safari the
tag and
opens up a little thing there and it
tells you the serial number. It's got uh
it takes you to the website as well. So
it tells you all about the wing and and
you can go and look at the website. It's
also got a website where you can go and
register your wing. It's got the skew
number, the EIN number, the security
code to to show you that it's a genuine
product. It's not a cotton. Um, and you
can go online and you can register that.
And the idea is that um
>> good innovation. Sorry, it's a good
innovation.
>> Well, we're just trying to stop, we've
had quite a bit of copying of Chinese
companies building fake axis stuff. So,
we stuck that in there to do that. And
the idea is to have that in all sorts of
products going forward.
Yeah, that's where we
that one it's on the case
just on the fiberglass barrier. I
noticed I put a shock shield on my Frank
board and it corroded right away, but I
haven't seen that in other for Does the
Frank board have a really thin
um sand back on the outside of No Slass?
It's just carbon. It's just color.
>> Yeah, there's carbon, but there's a
layer of bog, white bog, and there's a
layer of red.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's uh it's pretty much carbon.
What's the shark shield made from?
>> I think they they sort of have these
stainless steel. Um but I don't know
what grade of stainless steel.
>> Stainless steel should be fine. It's if
it's if it's corroding,
>> it'll be aluminium. I'm sure
>> it's going rust that.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yeah. It's interesting. I've seen it on
one one of the
>> So that if it's doing that that's just a
bad quality stainless steel. So it' be
304.
That's interesting because I didn't it
didn't happen on my other
>> We've got some new Frank boards coming
too like those are the Maros. Those have
been really really popular. There was a
recent poll and bunch of people voted as
a downwind board came out at 32%. I
think the Senova came in second place.
>> Yeah, that was funny. I put that poll
up.
>> Oh, you started that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I was asking for my mate
who's about size to
>> Yeah.
>> And everyone was just
>> I think if you saw how many there were
out there last month too. I mean
>> Yeah. Well, it's all around the world.
It's really taken off.
>> Um that's the the new fuselage. And
there's some extra things we've done in
there to help with corrosion. So in
here, this is a a zinc anode. And if
you've got an outboard motor or an
inboard motor, you'll know that you have
a a zinc anodess all over your your
motor and once a year or so you you
replace them. So that zinc anode will
actually deteriorate over time from the
salt water and that deteriorates to
protect the rest of the fuselage from
corroding. This is marine grade alum
aluminium so it's it's pretty good. The
other thing that we've changed in the
recent fuselage is these two front
holes. They're not very deep. So, we
used to get the odd person stripping
those two front holes. So, we've made a
a a titanium insert in there. So, it's
actually a little insert. It's not a hel
coil, and it just winds in, and it has
two pins either side of it. So, you wind
it in, and then you whack the pins, and
the pins cut through the thread and make
it so there's no way you can take it
back out again. So, the front two holes
are titanium, and it's got the zinc in
it.
That's the the newer fuselage. We've
modified this quite a few times over the
years and you can see the back of it is
actually pretty thin and it's quite high
this way. When you're when you're
pumping this, this is going up and down
through the water and this is quite
knifelike to to cut through the water.
Whereas um probably the worst things you
could have is a a square section or or
even a round section. There's a lot of
drag off a round piece going up and
down. If you just get a round stick and
wave it through the water compared to
something like that, it just cuts
through the water a lot better. Um, it
also makes this as thin as you can
possibly get it. So, that saves weight,
but we've added the thickness through
here where they they sometimes used to
crack through here. So, that's a
modified black fuselage. And I like to
think it's actually a pretty sleek
looking thing compared to what it's been
in the past. Aluminium is actually
pretty good. It's cost effective and
when you have the zinc and the titanium
bits in it um and build it properly, it
lasts pretty well. It's reasonably
inexpensive. It's it works well.
>> All the screws inserts are titanium.
>> No, just the front two. These ones here
never really strip out. We could have
done those in titanium as well, but just
after the price and we never really had
problems with those. The rear ones,
they're just straight into aluminium.
And we didn't really strip those. And we
can't actually because it's so thin
through here, we can't actually fit them
in there. So still use tough gel.
>> Always a good idea. Use a big Tiff gel.
>> Who doesn't [clears throat] like
sticking it away with their hands?
[laughter]
Doesn't
>> I use a graphite, but I've been using
oil stuff for
>> Yeah.
>> Probably eight or nine years since I
started wind foiling. And
>> is it still sticky and horrible? No.
Well, the thing is you get sand, you can
just wipe it out. Stick. It's not
sticky, but it's I've never had a
failure.
I got a question for Luke. When you're
not trying to go fast downwind in a
straight line,
>> what would you what front wing would you
choose between the RV2s,
the Surge or the uh Spitfires?
>> Surge every time.
>> Every day of the week.
>> Every day of the week. Um, yeah,
speedwise, like
I think when you match
when you actually match the right size
for your weight and compared to what
you've been riding, like I've heard a
lot of people, you know, they'll compare
the 890 to riding the 819 V2 and be
like, "Oh, it's so much slower." It's
it's going to be. Whereas when you ride
the 830 or the new sizes that are coming
out that more closely match the actual
profile and size of that wing um speed
wise they are very impressive. They do
um run quite fast if you want them to.
Um but then you also get that low
swallow speed to rely on as well if you
run into you know run up the back of a
swell or run yourself into a hole. Um,
so every day of the week I'm going to
choose a surge for um, anything turn
related, anything turn related, anything
speed, I'm jumping on that. And then
yeah, they're pretty much my two two
wings now. Um, so yeah, those are very
impressive. I think the 1010 and we're
working on some larger ones as well. I
think those will actually end up being
really, really useful for people that
are learning to downwind just because
they're so easy to ride, so predictable
in their lift, really nice turny surfing
wings, and they just stay up and glide
well too.
>> Adrian, I brought a question regarding
tempo. Uh, compared to, um, fireball and
normal, you know, stingy tail, what are
the angle of the front and tail?
>> Same.
>> Simos.
>> Yep. without shims with fire. Yeah.
>> So if you want more lift, you you just
go to a bigger rear, which is a little
bit like shimming, positive shimming,
>> but you just do it.
>> We tried to keep this as slick as
possible. So if you're going to have
this shimable at the base here, it would
involve screws and drag mess, whatever.
So
>> just trying to keep this totally clean.
And it's it's worked really well. Rear
lay just neutral layout at positive. So
the front wing is 1°ree up uh and the
back wing is 1 and 1/2° down. Little
difference depend front two and a half.
But that's that's nominal because it's
it's appropriate to your camber. So if
you got a higher camber um like for your
for your rear for example, if you had a
higher camber rear, you can ride it a
lot flatter because it's creating the
force through camber rather than via
angle of attack. So it's it's balanced
and it works nicely as it is. Um, it's
kind of all you need to know. It doesn't
necessarily relate to any other for
setup and what angles they may or may
not be riding at. This is balanced and
it works pretty good. Everyone that hops
on this first run like had a guy in
Maui. He was riding another brand and we
put him on actually it was a 920
25 rear. He had his first ever run on it
and on his first run he did a personal
best straight away. He didn't he just
called the wrong wind. It's not like he
had to have 10 runners to sort of learn
how to ride it. They're very comfortable
and easy and intuitive to use.